
CROP ESTABLISHMENT
    Another issue in rice growing that should be considered is crop establishment. Planting the crop at the proper time in a well-prepared field will result in a fast-growing, uniform crop that can withstand pests and diseases while producing higher yields. The optimal planting method is determined by the location, variety, availability of water, and cropping cycle.


PRACTICE SYNCHRONOUS PLANTING AFTER THE FALLOW PERIOD
    Farmers are encouraged to plant at the same time or within a 30-day period using synchronized planting.

    Planting in the majority of the irrigation service area prevents insect and disease populations from overlapping, as well as severe production loss from pests. If farmers plant at the same time, bug pests will have a lot of food to eat. More plants imply more rice fields as a source of food. As a result, insect pests and their harm will not be limited to a single field.

    Crops can also be harvested simultaneously with synchronized planting. Insect pests will no longer have a food source once all crops have been harvested.

	Another condition for practiced synchronous planting following the fallow period, other from planting synchronously, is the fallow period. It gives the ground at least a month to recuperate after harvesting. This time period disrupts the life cycle of insect pests and kills disease hosts. The majority of insect pests have a one-month life cycle.
	Inoculum in the field is also reduced during this time. The source of infections that arose during the previous cropping season will be gone by the start of the next cropping season if the land is left idle. Furthermore, the fallow season allows for proper breakdown of rice straw and organic elements, which can be used as fertilizer.


SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF SEEDLINGS
    Seedlings that are healthy have regular height and growth, short leaf sheaths, long/heavy roots, and no pests or diseases.

    Healthy seedlings develop a good canopy, have a strong root system, and are more weed-resistant. These qualities make it easier for the plant to absorb sunlight and soil nutrients, resulting in a greater survival rate and faster recovery from transplant shock.

    Select three sampling points at least 1 m from the levee and in a diagonal line across the field to examine the health of seedlings for transplanted rice. Using a 1 m × 1 m quadrant, count the slopes from each position. To get the average number of slopes per m2, add the numbers and divide by three. At least 25 hills per m2 are required.


TRANSPLANTED RICE (TPR)
    This method should use a seeding rate of 20 to 40 kg per hectare for inbred and 15 to 20 kg for hybrids. Hills that are missing after transplanting should be replanted within 7 days (DAT). At 10 days after transplanting, check the density of the hill and the health of the seedlings.

	To ensure sufficient water for seedling growth, a suitable rice seedbed should be near a water source. To avoid drowning germinated seeds, which results in weak seedlings, the field should have sufficient drainage. 21 days after sowing, seedlings are ready to be transplanted.


MODIFIED DAPOG TECHNOLOGY
    Unlike the conventional seedbed method, which requires older seedlings, this technology allows seedlings to be transferred only 10 days after sowing. In addition, modified dapog uses 25-40% fewer seeds per hectare.


MECHANICAL PLANTING
    The seedling trays are filled with pre-germinated seeds. The seedlings are ready for transplanting after 15-18 days, and the trays are loaded into the transplanter. It takes less time and only one person-day to complete.


REPLANT MISSING HILLS
    Seedlings that are plucked from the seedbed carelessly may be damaged to the point where they may not survive transplantation. Missing hills should be replanted 5-7 days after transplanting to ensure that planting density is not reduced.


DIRECT SEEDING
    There are two types of direct-seeded rice: wet-seeded and dry-seeded. The use of a drum seeder and broadcasting are two seeding methods. Row seeding should be done at a rate of 40kg/ha, while broadcast seeding should be done at a rate of 80kg/ha.










