
NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT
    The rice plant has specific nutritional requirements at each stage of development. Therefore, nutrition management is an important element of rice farming. From tillering to early panicle initiation, and flowering, there should be enough nutrients to guarantee healthy and uniform growth, panicle development, and yield potential.


Sufficient nutrients from tillering to early panicle initiation, and flowering
    Plants require nutrients to develop and become productive. Crop growth and productivity are improved by proper nutrient management. When there is more sunlight, rice plants develop faster and respond better to fertilizers. Rice plants require more of the macronutrients N, P, K, Zn, and S than any other nutritional element.

    Sufficient nutrients from tillering to early panicle initiation, and flowering ensure good and uniform growth, panicle development, and attainment of yield potential.

    From tillering through early panicle initiation, and flowering, producing adequate nutrients enable healthy and uniform growth, panicle development, and yield potential.

    It’s critical to understand the correct fertilizer kind, quantity, and time (right KAT). Providing the right fertilizers enhance cost efficiency and yield target achievement. Too many nutrients might make the rice plant susceptible to pests and illnesses, so getting the right quantity is crucial. Seedling development may be slowed, there may be fewer tillers, and the grains may be lighter as a result of nutritional deficiency. Fertilizer application at the right time improves input efficiency and nutrient absorption. A transplanted crop should have at least 300 panicles/m2 at flowering stage, whereas a direct-seeded crop should have at least 350 panicles/m2.


Leaf Color Chart (LCC)
    The crop is fertilized with N from tillering to early panicle initiation and flowering (1.5 bags urea/ha during the dry season; 1.0 bag/ha during the wet season). The LCC is employed to visually examine the rice crop’s N level by looking at the color of its leaves, which represents nitrogen status. It features four colored strips numbered 2, 3, 4, and 5 that range in hue from yellow green to dark green. N application is required when the average reading for transplanted rice falls below 4 and 3 for direct seeded rice.


Minus-One-Element Technique (MOET)
    Another key aspect for a good yield is the state of the soil. MOET is a pot experiment that determines whether nutrients in the soil are lacking. It is based on the idea that if one nutrient is deficient, crop development will suffer, even if other nutrients are plentiful. MOET works by mixing a negative-one-element fertilizer formula with the soil in pots, for example, minus N, P, or K. To determine which element is deficient in the soil, the rice plants growing in these pots are compared to those growing in pots with complete fertilizers.


