
PEST MANAGEMENT
    Pests (e.g. insects, diseases, weeds, rats, snails, and birds) must not reduce rice yield. This can be accomplished by using ecological engineering to enhance the population of beneficial species, such as setting up rat traps and baits, using scarecrows, flaglets, or banners to scare birds, and so on.


Ecological engineering
    Is a pest-control strategy that helps both humans and the environment. It involves growing a variety of plants near or around the rice field in order to attract friendly species that feed on pests.


Weed Management
    Weeds can diminish yield by up to 5-90% and serve as a breeding ground for pests and illnesses. As a result, they must be carefully controlled. To manage weeds, farmers often employ water management and herbicides, depending on their efficacy and simplicity of usage.

    By burying weeds under the soil, isolating their shoots from roots, stimulating germination of latent seeds, desiccating shoots, and depleting perennial weeds&#39; carbohydrate stores, the stale bed technique aids in weed management. Manual weeding and the use of a rotary weeder are two others weed control alternatives.


Golden Apple Snails (GAS)
    Handpicking is one of the ways for controlling GAS. This is done in the morning and afternoon, when they are most active, on the field. Plants like Sambong and Makabuhay, which contain GAS-fighting toxins, can also assist. Snails of small sizes can be fed to ducks.


Rat Management
    Rice production continues to be plagued by field rats. Field sanitation, physical control, such as excavating and demolishing burrows, hunting, the use of flame throwers, and baits are all alternatives for management.


Bird Control
    This strategy can be done with the following options: (a) Place scarecrows around the fields after sowing; (b) Place white and colored flaglets or colored aluminum foil ribbons around the fields; (c) Place strings above the rice fields; (e) Install fisherman’s nets around the fields; and (f) Combine the most cost-effective control techniques.


