
HARVEST MANAGEMENT
    Cutting, threshing, and cleaning are all part of the harvesting process, which can be done manually or with the help of a combine harvester. Drain the field 7-10 days before harvesting to aid uniform maturity/ripening, minimize soaking of harvested grains, and simplify field operations.


Manual Cutting
    A sickle or scythe is used in manual cutting. Cut panicles are put down in windrows to allow partial drying. The dried crop is picked up, hauled, and stacked in piles. To avoid grain discoloration and low-quality milled rice caused by heat build-up, don&#39;t pile the harvested crop on the field for more than a day.


Mechanical Cutting
    A reaper, either hand-driven or mounted on a tractor, can be used for this. A reaper with a 1.5m cutting width can complete 2-4 hectares each day. It involves little work, but it must be used on a leveled field with a standing crop.


Combine Harvesting
    Using a combine harvester, this is the process of harvesting, threshing, cleaning, and bagging grains in a sequence. It threshes the entire crop, cutting, conveying, and feeding it to the threshing cylinder, removing the straw and collecting and bagging clean grains.


Threshing
    This is where the grains and straw are separated. Mechanical threshing, pounding the panicles against a hard surface, and stomping the cut panicles by human or draft animals are common methods in this process. In the rainy season, threshing should be completed within one day, and in the dry season, two days.


Cleaning
    Impurities such as unfilled and immature grains, chaffs, weed seeds, soil, waste materials, and other non-grain items are removed during this procedure. It also promotes grain storability improvement, decreases breakage during milling, and enhance milling output and quality.


Drying
    The process of decreasing grain moisture to an acceptable level for storage or other types of processing, such as milling, is called drying procedure. This may be accomplished by using mechanical dryers such as the Maligaya flatbed dryer and reversible flatbed dryer, or by sun-drying. Grain quality will be reduced by improper drying (e.g., delayed or partial drying and excessive drying temperature).


Storage
    Rice is normally stored in paddy form, with a moisture level of 13-14%, at ambient conditions. Storage can last for 4-6 months, or until the next harvesting season.


Milling
    It is the process of removing the husk, as well as the bran layers that cover the endosperm, to yield an edible white kernel that is adequately milled and impurity-free.
